# CORAL

CORAL (Contextual Ontology-based Repository Analysis Library) is a
framework for rigorous self-validated data modeling and integrative,
reproducible data analysis.

This software was developed at the Berkeley Lab by Pavel S. Novichkov,
John-Marc Chandonia, Charles DeVilholm, and Adam P. Arkin.

CORAL Prototype Implementation (CORAL) Copyright (c) 2021-2023, The Regents
of the University of California, through Lawrence Berkeley National
Laboratory (subject to receipt of any required approvals from the
U.S. Dept. of Energy).  All rights reserved.

This software is available under the GNU Affero General Public License
("AGPL") or a separate commercial use license.  If you have questions
about your rights to use or distribute this software, please contact
Berkeley Lab's Intellectual Property Office at IPO@lbl.gov.  If you
would like more information about obtaining this software under the
terms of the commercial use license rather than the AGPL, please
contact Berkeley Lab's Intellectual Property Office at IPO@lbl.gov.

NOTICE.  U.S. Government Rights.  The Software was developed under
funding from the U.S. Government.  During a period of
commercialization granted to Berkeley Lab by the U.S. Department of
Energy, the U.S. Government is granted for itself and others acting on
its behalf a nonexclusive, paid-up, irrevocable, worldwide license in
the Software to reproduce, prepare derivative works, and perform
publicly and display publicly, by or on behalf of the U.S. Government.
Subsequent to that period, the U.S. Government is granted for itself
and others acting on its behalf a nonexclusive, paid-up, irrevocable,
worldwide license in the Software to reproduce, prepare derivative
works, distribute copies to the public, perform publicly and display
publicly, and to permit others to do so.

This work by ENIGMA (Ecosystems and Networks Integrated with Genes and
Molecular Assemblies) (http://enigma.lbl.gov), a Scientific Focus Area
Program at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, is based upon work
supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Science, Office
of Biological and Environmental Research, under contract number
DE-AC02-05CH11231.

## Citation

Novichkov PS<sup>\*</sup>, Chandonia JM<sup>\*</sup>, Arkin AP. 2022. CORAL: A framework for rigorous self-validated data modeling and integrative, reproducible data analysis. <a href="https://academic.oup.com/gigascience/article/doi/10.1093/gigascience/giac089/6762021"><i>Gigascience</i> 2022 Oct 17;11:giac089</a>. [<a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36251274/">PubMed</a>]|[<a href="https://www.strgen.org/~jmc//chandonia-2022-gigascience-coral.pdf">PDF</a>]

<sup>*</sup> Joint first authors

Note that a lot of documentation, including an overview of the software, is in the <a href="https://www.strgen.org/~jmc//chandonia-2022-gigascience-coral.supinfo.pdf">Supplemental PDF</a>, also called "giac089_Supplemental\_File" on the <a href="https://academic.oup.com/gigascience/article/doi/10.1093/gigascience/giac089/6762021?searchresult=1#supplementary-data">journal's website</a>.

## Installation

Follow the installation instructions in back\_end, then
the instructions in front\_end.
